The Russian repressive machine loves to pressure, threaten and destroy anyone who disagrees with the regime. Of course, it is much easier with those who do not have the resources and ability to stand up for themselves.  Well, they put me in jail for some drawing and that's it.  But it's very difficult.  The regimes come with famous and much-loved stars who spoke out against the war.  Some have left and are doing what they love, building a new life, while others continue to harm the regime and beyond their borders with their endless inconvenient statements.  Today I will tell you about a man whom the Russian regime really doesn’t like.  True, it is impossible to harm him in any way.   The Kremlin keeps putting pressure on him, but he just won’t shut up.  The hero of our issue is comedian Maxim Galkin.  Why did the Russian regime dislike the comedian so much?  Why is the artist who performed in front of Putin and received the Order of Friendship from him, Star of Federal Channels?  Today, the main enemy of the regime and the favorite hero of propaganda is one of those very traitors who left?  This is what we will talk about.  But before we begin, please like and subscribe.  That's all I need. My name is Victoria Tnischeva.  This is the program Wrong Door.  We are starting. [music] Maxim Galkin was born in 1976.  Both grandfathers and father were military personnel.  And this is an interesting fact from Maxim's family.  My father was even the head of the main armored vehicle department of the Ministry of Defense.  But, despite such a powerful background, Galkin did not follow in the footsteps of his father and grandfathers.  Maxim Galkin has a brother, Dmitry.  We'll talk about him again today .  Since childhood, Galkin has been interested in artistic performances.  At school he played in various plays.  And then he began to engage in the genre of parody, showing classmates and teachers.  And in the sixth grade he held his first puppet show.  After school, Galkin entered the Russian State University for the Humanities.  This, by the way, is also my alma mater. He studied at the Faculty of Linguistics and graduated from the university in 1998. Already during his studies, he began his career as a parody artist.  At first he performed in student plays, then he took part in the program Debuts, Debuts, Debuts in the variety theater.  There he showed his parodies of Zhirinovsky and Yeltsin.  At one of the concerts, he was noticed by the artistic director of the Moscow Variety Theatre and invited as an artist to join the team.  Galkin's performances in the variety theater ended with a tour with Mikhail Zadornov, who was then a comedy legend.  Zadornov called Galkin his successor.  During the Chechen war, Galkin traveled to the republic to perform for Russian soldiers.  This was Galkin’s first and last trip to a hot spot and also to Chechnya.  In the future, or more precisely in 2019, in an interview with Rina Shikhman, Galkin admits that he does not consciously go there.  I see that the artists who go there are a bit goal-oriented.  I don’t know how, and I can’t join this choir; my voice will come out from this choir.  In 2001, Galkin became a confident solo artist.  He gives his concert at the Slavic Bazaar festival in Vitebsk and from then on begins to perform regularly. And he doesn’t perform at some modest independent venues.  He gives his concerts in the Rossiya Concert Hall in the State Kremlin Palace. Galkin makes jokes about politicians in front of officials, civil servants, and sometimes even in front of the heroes of these jokes themselves.  But back then it was still possible.  One of Galkin's most famous speeches in the 2000s was " Politicians Play What, Where, When."   A concert in the Kremlin dedicated to the tenth anniversary of Gazprom.  Number four is Valeria Novodvorskaya.  Valeria Yeleniychna, please sit down.  Thank you, I was already sitting under Brezhnev, I will play standing up.  Play as you wish.  And finally, the team captain, our first president Boris Nikolaevich Yeltsin.  Oh, Boris Nikolaevich, don’t get distracted, spin the top. Oh, in 2001 Galkin gains a foothold on TV screens.  After Dmitry Debrov left the program "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire"?  Maxim Galkin becomes the host .  In 2002, his solo concerts began to be broadcast on Channel One. Galkin becomes one of the most sought-after TV presenters.  He hosts the Anshlag program Two Stars with Alla Pugacheva.  Festival New songs about the main thing.  But he is of key interest precisely as the author of his own comedy concerts, in which he jokes about politics, about the state, about everything that resonates with people.  In 2008, the premiere of the TV version of the solo concert We "We are together again" took place on the Ukrainian TV channel Inter; in Russia, the concert was shown only in 2009 and already then in a shortened version with the cut number political poem.  due to the Russian presidential elections in 2008.  Gentlemen, I have gathered you all here to choose a president for the coming years.  I know, there's no argument.  There are still 12 years left, and there is no point in me changing at this point .  Yes, God grant that I will manage to do everything and look after the tiger cub. Many birds still don’t know what to peck at and where to fly.  In 2008, Galkin left the first one for Russia, hosted Star Ice, Dancing with the Stars, and became the host of Blue Lights.   I'll show you a piece from the 2013 issue. You can cry about something that will never happen again.  The first New Year's Eve.  With you, Vladimir Zelensky and Maxim Galkin. As they say, the New Year has crept up on us unnoticed .  Yes, I would even say, crawled. Galkin also regularly appeared on Ukrainian television, but in 2014, to the surprise of many, he became the host of the Russia Day concert in Crimea, just after the annexation.  Hello Yalta, Happy Russia Day.   For a long time now, summer and Crimea have become synonyms in the Russian language.  After this concert, the SBU blacklisted Galkin.  In 2015, Galkin will return to the first place.  But all these movements actually did not have much meaning for the viewer.  At that time, Galkin had already become a true people's artist.  Well, now let's talk a little about Galkin's political position in general and how he used his popular fame.  Galkin's live solo performances very often touched on politics, but, as the comedian himself said, they were never truly offensive or resembled political statements.  These were humorous sketches about the modern world, quite straightforward, although not offensive. From 2012 to 2014, Galkin wrote a column for the Komsomolskaya Pravda magazine.  He said that this very platform became a place for him to express his opinion.  Among other things, he wrote there, for example, about Stalin and called him a bloody dictator.  There he also spoke out against the law prohibiting US citizens from identifying Russian orphans.  For now, it is easier for the Duma deputies to adopt a monstrous, cynical law named after a dead child than to admit that they were wrong.  Most of us come from the USSR.  It was during those times that the state taught us by its own example that a strong government does not admit mistakes.  In 2012, as part of the Internet project Srok, Galkin criticized Navalny.  I don't believe him.  I haven't read his blog.  I just saw when these events happened, what he says, how he says.  I hear a person in general through intonation.  I am not convinced by all this.  He speaks very convincingly , but his eyes say something else.  But in 2017, the TV presenter will no longer be so categorical.  In an interview with the Meduza publication, he will say that Navalny is not his candidate.  However, all his anti-corruption work makes a useful contribution.  In this same interview, Galkin will also talk about his attitude towards Russian repressive laws, including the law banning homosexuality. I think it’s funny to say that homosexuals in Russia have gone wild. Our most downtrodden homosexuals are among the most downtrodden in the world.  I'm not even talking about their rights now, but about their existence in general .  In this regard, we have a very strict puritanical society.  I have always seen these laws as a way to distract people from real problems.  Discussing people with non-traditional sexual orientation is much more interesting than the dollar exchange rate and the movement of our economy.  But at the same time, it seems important to say that for a long time Galkin remained, as it were, neither too radical nor too loud.  That is, yes, of course, there was political humor in his speeches, but considering that he was one of the favorite TV presenters and comedians at state concerts, and the officials themselves laughed at his jokes, this was not some kind of directly activist statement.  It was more within the limits of what was permitted.  But in 2019, the situation seems to have changed.  Twitter began to explode with jokes about the new opposition leader Maxim Galkin. Memes have appeared, saying that Galkin has even eclipsed Navalny himself.  This is all because clippings from the comedian’s concert in Novosibirsk, where he joked a lot and sharply about political issues and even spoke about censorship on Russian television, have been spreading across social networks.  Well, from the point of view of television, we have a return to Soviet times in the worst sense of the word, because we are constantly not given the opportunity to think about something.  They chew it all out for us right away and say: “So, these are the enemies, this is this, you come here, this is there, here, there.”  It's clear? That's it, right?  Well, everything hurts, everything.  We ourselves, as experts from Poland, are sitting here, afraid that they will give us a knee to the jaw. At the same concert, Galkin joked about the systemic opposition and about Putin.  And Putin himself is already bored with us.  It's boring, you know?  We are boring, we have problems.  So here we have the wrong pensions, they did something wrong there, something wrong here.  And he is already mentally conquering Mars on a different scale .  And how are we supposed to live on?  And he says: "Be patient, tighten your belts."  Everyone is tightening their belts, some around their necks. Even political analysts began to comment on Galkin’s speeches.  They say it is very symptomatic that even Galkin began to make very sharp jokes in front of his rather elderly audience, which is hardly ready for political action , and they burst into laughter. While social networks were delighted with Galkin's new concert, his colleagues on federal channels were perplexed: "Like, what is a comedian talking about? What censorship! I have no idea what the wonderful artist and TV presenter Maxim Galkin is talking about. We work with him on different channels. We don't have any manifestations of censorship. During the Soviet Union, there was no way to hold the formats that I do, for example, where people from different points of view and from different countries express their opinions absolutely freely. And my colleague on the TV channel, Dmitry Kiselyov, decided to blame it all on the rain. Galkin is probably talking about this liberal channel where he comes from time to time. At the same time, Galkin gives a long interview to Irina Shikhman and talks a lot about his position, views and, of course, about Russia. And then, attention, 1848. And instead, she presents a terrible spectacle of a country where not only are there no guarantees for the individual, honor and property, but there are not even police order, and there are only huge corporations of various official thieves and robbers. 1848. Tell me, please, Ir, what has changed in our country? Given that during this time the monarchy fell, communism fell, and now we are in a new stage, which I would call capitalist monarchism. In a conversation with Shikhman, Maxim Galkin talked a lot about censorship, the same one that he touched on at his scandalous concert. He said that he clearly distinguishes between censorship on TV and at live concerts. Like, it has become difficult to joke on TV , they don’t let anything through there. But he does n’t really care about this, because there is no censorship at live concerts. He was never asked to give jokes for review, even when he performed in front of Putin. I don’t have the feeling that I work under a regime. In my entire life, I have never been limited in what I say at my concert. Yeah. And while I can be ironic, joke about the existing regime,  I can work. As soon as I can’t do this, I won’t work. He told a story. Allegedly, once during a concert at the Slavic Bazaar, they tried to restrict him from making jokes about Lukashenko. Well, Galkin simply ignored this attempt to censor. Moreover, I don’t understand the fear that the new ones have. That same one, I watched DDA Nurlan Saburov, I think that’s the guy’s name, he says: “I’m still afraid, I’m afraid to portray Nazarbayev.” Come on, what for now? What are you waiting for? I don’t understand if you can portray Nazarbayev. I’ve performed in front of Nazarbayev many times . I spoke in Kazakh. I joked about Nazarbayev and performed in front of Nazarbayev, without Nazarbayev. Well, well, if you’re doing this, why are you doing this if you can’t joke? And Shikhman also asked Galkin a very uncomfortable question. The thing is that in 2018, Galkin supported  Sobyanin in the mayoral elections and took an active part in his election campaign. He went to the headquarters in a T-shirt with the "My Mayor Sobyanin" badge and urged everyone to vote. Later, there were Moscow protests, for the brutal dispersal of which Sergei Sobyanin was personally responsible. But Shekhman also asked the artist, like, how is that possible? All this talk about Russia's politics, bold satire and support for Sobyanin, my friends asked me, he says: "Can you support?" I say: "I can." That's it, I can't name my friends, right? No, no , well, what am I, I was sleeping and thinking about who I should support now. Was this some kind of civic act of yours? No, no, I was asked to support, and I didn't find any contradictions. Galkin said that at the time of the interview, after the Moscow case, he had not made such a choice. And in 2019, Galkin spoke out in support of journalist Ivan Golunov. I fully support the release of Ivan Golunov. He is not my friend, I am not a journalist, not his colleague, but so many worthy journalists, whose opinions I listen to, whom I trust, expressed their support for him and say that the case is fabricated. This number convinces me that they are right, and I believe that Ivan should be released and that he was detained illegally. Galkin increasingly won the trust of the democratic part of the audience. Despite concerts and shows on federal channels, it seemed that his speeches and political statements were becoming bolder and more honest. In 2020, he recorded a parody of a conversation between Putin and Sobyanin about the schedule of walks in the fresh air during COVID. What fresh air in Moscow? Okay, so we wipe out the fresh air. Next. Why the word air? Eh, it is clear that people breathe air anyway. We remove the air. It turns out to be a schedule for breathing. Correct. Doesn't it sound undemocratic, as if we want to control who breathes how and when, and who does not. Yes, sometimes we  we are blocking the oxygen for some, but not for the masses yet. Therefore, I propose to add one word, schedule. to breathe freely every other day. Yes, freely every other day. It will be perfectly executed. All media began to quote and repost Galkin's parody, including the state one. But not for long. Quite quickly, the presidential administration called, and the parody began to disappear from the news channels. At the same time, Galkin himself did not delete the video. Well, and personally, there were no questions from the administration to him . And at that time, it seems, Zagalkin had already begun to consolidate the image of an artist who, yes, works for a state channel, performs at state events. However, when it is necessary not to remain silent, he does not remain silent. Of course, I try to be closer to you than to the authorities, because, well, a comedian should be closer to the people. Because when a comedian clings to the authorities, it is always suspicious. And most importantly, if you got something from them, if you became friends, there is no longer any way to [ __ ] on them. And his humor was truly honest. In  In 2020, Alexey Navalny made a post, attaching a video from the International Sawmill, a supposedly humorous, but generally shameful project by Margarita Simonyan and Tigranka Yasayana about Navalny's poisoning. And Galkin responded to this supposedly funny clipping. Yes, humor and satire are an area where it is difficult to be nice to everyone, and you inevitably offend someone. But this filth regularly demonstrates the highest level of offensive custom-made slag. Just during this period, Galkin gradually begins to appear on YouTube, starts his own channel, becomes the host of the music program on the Gazgoder channel, apparently gradually expanding his audience. Since Galkin's humor has become bolder, a younger audience has also begun to watch and listen to it. But in 22, when the war began, Galkin spoke out quite clearly against the invasion without halftones and doubts. In March, together with Alla Pugacheva, they left Russia for Israel. Naturally, all their advertising contracts were terminated, and the FSB began to ban concerts because they talked too much . On the day of the descent of the Holy Fire, Russian cruise missiles fly into a residential building in Odessa. A family dies, a three-month-old child dies. How does all this work? How is that? Explain it to me. Well, let 's start with the fact that cruise missiles should not fly into residential buildings on weekdays, not just on holidays. But you are simultaneously praying with the Patriarch of Jerusalem for peace. You, officials, you come, you bring the Holy Fire to Moscow, and at the same time this same government sends these missiles. Living in Israel, Galkin continues to give concerts, goes on tour. And it seems that leaving Russia has only made his work better, because his jokes have become freer. At his performances, Galkin even jokes about the pressure of the authorities on him, or rather, their attempts. If  you are against the government, you are either a Jew or a [ __ ]. That's it, there is no other way. Well, forgive me, I am using their vocabulary. Either a Jew or a [ __ ]. That's it. But in my case it is a lucky coincidence. And at one of his concerts Galkin even responded to a woman who shouted: "Glory to Ukraine!  I was asked to be neutral." Where? How can I be neutral? Not anymore. Yes, already, yes. And I just don't hear that glory to the heroes. Here Galkin, together with Pugacheva, was literally recorded as the main traitors of the motherland. It seems that the authorities hate no one as much as this couple. Dmitry Peskov said that Galkin had tarnished himself with completely indecent and unacceptable statements. Quite soon after Galkin's departure, he was recognized as an agent. His wife Alla Pugacheva made a post and asked to recognize her too, well, as if for the company. The Russian authorities did not fulfill her wish. After all, they are Prima Donnas, but they are afraid to touch them for now. And the Verstka publication also wrote that in 2022, Pugacheva and Galkin were checked under criminal articles on fakes and defamation. Taz then wrote: "Supposedly, the Investigative Committee did not find grounds for initiating a case." But, obviously, there is no great love, because Russian propagandists  do not calm down and churn out an endless number of documentaries, reports, news about how traitors to the motherland Galkin Pugacheva are rotting in Israel . They even passed on the methodology to all sorts of YouTube bloggers, like Alena Blin. And besides, does Maxim Galkin not understand that there are a huge number of Russian-speaking citizens living in Kazakhstan who simply do not want to listen to how Russia is being mocked from the stage ? It is this genre, if you can call it that, that is now Galkin's entire repertoire. So, did you want to make money on political humor? Well, now don't complain. Of course, you can shout that you are being banned at the state level, that you are so cool, although in fact, maybe people just do not want to come to your concert. Galkin's concerts were cancelled in Thailand precisely because of his political statements. The publication "We Can Explain" then wrote that it was a campaign against anti-war artists, which was being conducted by the Russian embassy in  Thailand. Many considered the story with his brother Dmitry as another way to put pressure on the artist. In June of 24, they came to his home with searches. Naturally, the first and most obvious thought was that this was pressure on the artist. But the juice of this story was that Galkin's brother is engaged in the production of ammunition. He owns a company that supplies combat vehicles to the Russian army fighting in Ukraine. The TA building wrote off: "Allegedly: "The case against Dmitry Galkin is in no way connected with his brother, but we are talking about a criminal case related to the theft of funds from the Ministry of Defense."  It later turned out that all these searches were due to the fact that Dmitry did not notify the migration service about his second citizenship.  While Russian propaganda continues to tell us that Galkin does not have enough money to live in Israel, and he raises the prices of tickets and corporate events in every possible way in order to somehow survive, the comedian continues to travel around the world, giving concerts in Israel, the USA, and Europe, and being a complete sellout everywhere.  The Russian government is trying in every way to show that all those who left are suffering, dying and dreaming of working for the regime.  Only reality is the opposite.  Since Galkin left Russia and condemned the war, Ukraine has removed him from its list of threats to national security.  And in social networks, thousands of Ukrainians are posting videos from Galkin's concerts and thanking him for his position, following his own principle: not to be friends with the authorities and to be ready to speak out against any sore point, Galkin's humor has become honest, bold and boundless.  Unlimited, including in terms of its audience, both in terms of nationality and in terms of age.  So it seems that in humor, as in everything in life, you need to be honest, and then everything will be as it deserves.  That's all from me.  You were on the program Wrong Door.  Like and subscribe to the channel.  Until next time. B