Japanese referee Nishimura ruined the opening match of the World Cup in Brazil, interpreting all controversial moments in the match with Croatia in favor of the hosts and awarding a ridiculous penalty against Stipe Plitikosa after Fred's bizarre fall in the penalty area.  But Nishimura is not yet the most important clown to judge at such a high level.  These are the top five most ridiculous refereeing mistakes in the recent history of the World Championships.  which not everyone found funny.  The top five is opened by Uruguayan referee Jorge Larionda.  In a 2010 game between England and Germany, the referee and his assistants somehow failed to notice Frank Lampard's shot as it flew a full metre into the German goal. In the end, the English finally broke down and lost, and after the match, Joseph Blather announced the need to introduce an automatic goal recording system, which was used for the first time at the current championship. [music] Fourth line and Howard Webb.  In the main match of the 2010 World Cup final, the karate kid, Dutchman Nigel Dejong, knocked out the Spaniard Jabiolonz very hard .  This blow, according to many media outlets, was included in the top ten worst fouls of modern times.  However, Webb did not send the Dutchman off the field, limiting himself to a warning.  the finale of destinies.  Four years earlier, he would probably have asked Zidane and Materazi to simply shake hands.  What, is everyone alive in the game episode ?  Later, however, the English referee admitted that this was one of the biggest mistakes in his [musician's] career.  Line number three.  and Valentin Ivanov.  In the 1/8 finals of the 2006 championship in Germany, Portugal and the Netherlands met.  In that match, the Russian completely lost control of the game, and when he started actively handing out cards, it was already too late.  As a result, welcome to the Newbie Fight Club. Accept the fight.  The result of the fight: several knockouts, 16 yellow and four red cards.  Ivanov set an absolute record and at the same time ended his international career.  Joseph Blather gave a negative assessment of the work of the Russian referee after the match.  Perhaps this is why our judges have not been invited to major [music] tournaments for many years.  Silver medalist and Spaniard Luis Medina Cantaleja.  In 2006, under the leadership of Guz Hidink, the Australians sensationally qualified for the World Cup and even managed to get out of the group.  The 1/8 final match with the Italians rightly came to an end with a score of 0:0.  However, Cantoleja apparently got tired and decided to end the match without overtime, 3 seconds before the end of added time, calling a ridiculous penalty against the Australians after Fabio Gross' spectacular fall, having deliberately tripped over an opponent who had already been beaten and was lying down.  In the end, the Australian fairy tale came to an end. [music] And the undisputed winner of our chart, the mastermind of the Korean miracle, Ecuadorian referee Byron Marena.  In the 1/8 finals of the 2002 championship, the hosts, the Koreans, met the Italians.   The South American referee showed his bias early in the game by awarding a highly controversial penalty against Buffon.  for, quote, pushing opponents too actively in the penalty area when serving from the flank.  After that, Mr. Objectivity showed a yellow card to Francesco Totti for hitting an opponent with his elbow, and a few minutes later ignored it.  Exactly the same blow from the Korean resulted in an injury and a cut on the head of the Italian defender Francesco Coca.  There's more to come.  After a foul in the Korean penalty area, instead of a penalty, the referee lights a second yellow card over the Rome legend for simulation and leaves the Italians in the minority.  But even in this situation, the Skvadrozura players managed to score.  No such luck.  Morena disallowed the goal due to, of course, an obvious offside.  As a result, the Koreans reached the quarter-finals, where, also with the help of the Egyptian referee Ghandour, who did not count two clear goals by Marientos, they beat the Spaniards on penalties [music] .  Bottom line: The hosts are often pulled by the ears, so don't be surprised by what 's happening in Brazil.  Well, here's a bonus from our top. Perhaps the biggest refereeing mistake in history.  At the 1986 World Cup, in the semi-final match between Argentina and England, Diego Maradona scored a goal against Peter Shilton using his hand. Everyone was able to spot the violations except referee Ali Ben Nasser. Argentina eventually made it to the final and became world champions, and Maradona declared that it was the hand of God.  That's all for today.   Did you like it?  Subscribe, because we, like you, are closely following the World Cup and preparing a bunch of new interesting tops.  We missed the rating of cool football players, whom coaches deliberately did not take to the World Cup.  Click here.  Well, a review of the best sports videos of the week is here. Alexander Zhuravlev I wish you never to meet any murky niches in your life. See you.  Bye.